# Terminology

## Classification

A _**Classification**_ is a link between a _**Classification Node**_ and a classified entity. The link to a classified entity is polymorphic, that is, many entities can be classified in the Meeco model.

## Classification Scheme

The Meeco platform has a very flexible way to tag information. Instead of having a traditional simple flat list of tags the system can be configured to have multiple independent _**Classifications**_. Combinations of these _**Classifications**_ are called _**Classification Schemes**_.

## Classification Node

A _**Classification Scheme**_ consists of a tree of _**Classification Nodes**_. A _**Classification Node**_

* belongs to a _**Classification Scheme**_
* has a parent _**Classification Node**_ unless it is the top node
* has property `name`
* has property `label`
* has property `description`
* has property `image`

## Connection

A _**Connection**_ between two users is a channel via which users can share individual _**Slots**_ on the _**Items**_, or the entire _**Item**_ itself.

You can read a more detailed explanation of _**Connections**_ and Sharing Items and Slots [here](connections-and-sharing.md), and you can run through creating a _**Connection**_ and sharing an item using the Meeco CLI tool [here](connections-and-sharing.md) - just make sure you've gone through the [Quickstart guide](../getting-started/quickstart.md) first to have gained access to!

## Data Encryption Key \(DEK\)

_**Data Encryption Keys**_ are `AES256-GCM` keys used to encrypted and decrypt user data. _**Data Encryption Keys**_ are stored in the **Keystore** encrypted with the _**Key Encryption Key**_.

A _**Data Encryption Key**_ is created for various functions of the API. For instance, a DEK is created when a user _**Shares**_ a _**Slot**_ with another user. When that user connects with another user, the first time they share another DEK is created.

It is possible for a user to have multiple _**Data Encryption Keys**_

## Item

An _**Item**_ is a group of _**Slots**_ related by a topic. For example, a user profile is an _**Item**_. A club membership, a flight reservation - all these can be _**Items**_ each having a number of _**Slots**_ of different types in them.

If a user makes a _**Connection**_ with another user, they can share the encrypted slots with that user.

## Item Template

An _**Item Template**_ is a predefined list of empty _**Slots**_. Each _**Item**_ is created by cloning such a template and filling in the _**Slots**_ with your user's data. You can read a more detailed document about Items and Templates [here](items-and-slots.md)

## Key Encryption Key \(KEK\)

The _**Key Encryption Key**_ which is used to encrypt all other keys \(data encryption keys and keypairs\) before they are stored in the _**Keystore**_. The _**Key Encryption Key**_ is encrypted with the _**Password Derived Key**_.

In the current implementation this is an [`AES256-GCM`](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Advanced_Encryption_Standard) key, but the serialization format of encrypted data used in the Meeco platform allows for adding new encryption algorithms without breaking backwards compatibility.

There is one _**Key Encryption Key**_ per user.

## Keypair

Public key cryptography is used for _**Connections**_ and shared between users. Private keys are stored in the _**Keystore**_ encrypted with the _**Key Encryption Key**_.

## Keystore

Storage for secrets and keys. This is where the [_Data Encryption Keys_](terminology.md#data-encryption-key-dek)_, Private Keys_ that have been encrypted with the [_Key Encryption Key_](terminology.md#key-encryption-key-kek)_,_ and __the __[_Derivation Artefacts_](terminology.md#passphrase-derived-key-and-derivation-artefacts) are stored. 

In the [Meeco Developer Portal](https://dev.meeco.me) the Keystore is reachable through the `https://sandbox.meeco.me/keystore` endpoint.

## Passphrase Derived Key And Derivation Artefacts

A _**Passphrase Derived Key**_ is a [`PBKDF2`](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PBKDF2) key in the current implementation. To generate or re-generate this key, a passphrase and derivation artefacts are required. Derivation artefacts include:

* Number of iterations
* Salt
* Derived key length

Derivation artefacts are stored in the _**Keystore**_. Neither the _**Passphrase Derived Key**_ itself nor the passphrase are stored in the _**Keystore**_

## Secret Key

The secret key is a component of the SRP flow, created on the client and stored \(securely\) by the user. The first character of the key denotes the version.

The format for version 1 is as follows:

```bash
{version}-{username}-{salt}
```

* The `username` is generated by the server
* The `salt` is a 256 bit randomly generated key, which is base58 encoded and has a hypen \(`-`\) at each 6th character.

## Share

A _**Share**_ is created when a user grants access to their _**Item**_ to another user that they've _**Connected**_ with. The _**Item**_ is re-encrypted with a data encryption key shared with the recipient of the _**Share**_.

For a detailed look at Sharing and Connections, have a look at the Connections and Sharing Guide, or read through the tutorial for creating a _**Connection**_ and sharing an item using the [Meeco CLI](../tools/meeco-cli.md) tool [here](connections-and-sharing.md)

## Slot

A _**Slot**_ in the smallest data entity in the _**Vault**_. An _**Item**_ is made up of _**Slots.**_ A _**Slot**_ is a placeholder for one data value. Each _**Slot**_ has a `name`, a `label`, and a `value`. _**Slots**_ are typed. A _**Slot**_ type defines what can be stored in a _**Slot**_ and how this data is handled. Example _**Slot**_ types are:

* `bool`
* `date`
* `datetime`
* `image`
* `key_value`
* `url`
* `phone_number`
* `email`
* `password`

_**Slots**_ have the following example structure:

```text
"slots": [
        {
            "id": "f1668277-0db5-4cff-9210-08a2f245c4aa",
            "name": "return_date",
            "description": null,
            "encrypted": false,
            "ordinal": 2,
            "visible": true,
            "classification_node_ids": [],
            "slotable_id": "ccfaadf6-e040-433f-ad34-904e988a2187",
            "slotable_type": "ItemTemplate",
            "required": false,
            "updated_at": "2020-01-02T20:32:49.761Z",
            "created_at": "2020-01-02T20:32:49.761Z",
            "config": null,
            "slot_type_name": "date",
            "creator": "system",
            "binary_ids": [],
            "label": "Return date",
            "image": null,
            "encrypted_value": null
        },
```

Once encrypted and serialized - you can use one of Meeco's [Cryppo](../tools/cryppo.md) family of encryption libraries -  a slot value of "BMW" would look something like this:

```bash
"encrypted_value": "Aes256Gcm.2hDl.LS0tCml2OiAhYmluYXJ5IHwtCiAgQWQwSThDZk5qRnFycmFuMAphdDogIWJpbmFyeSB8LQogIDJXVklzbUxOSWVoOHZIVDB1ZzBtZVE9PQphZDogbm9uQQo="
```

_**Slot**_ values are always stored in an encrypted form and only the user can decrypt and read them.

_**Slots**_ are able to be shared after two users have made a [_**Connection**_](terminology.md#connection) _****_with each other.

## SRP - Secure Remote Password

A type of password authenticated key exchange that we have adopted for signup and key handling.

You can read more about it here - [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Secure\_Remote\_Password\_protocol](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Secure_Remote_Password_protocol) 

This greatly simplifies user creation and login for the developer and users.

## Vault

The Vault is where a User of the API-of-Me will store the Items they create and modify. In other words - storage for encrypted user data. 

The User is the only actor that can decrypt their own data - that is to say, more importantly, that User data cannot be decrypted and read by anyone at Meeco. Your data is _your_ data. 

In the [Meeco Developer Portal](https://dev.meeco.me) the Vault is reachable through the `https://sandbox.meeco.me/vault` endpoint.